10-86, possible 4-17. Baker, Henry.
3000 block of Bagley, 4-17, 10-30.
Get back!
- I'll shoot her!
- Oh, my God!
3-L-90. I repeat:
3-L-90, request you notify hostage
negotiation team.
Have them respond to my Location.
- See anything?
- Get those cars out of here!
Suspect is a male Caucasian,
approximately--
I'm a reporter.
How Long have you been here?
Domestic or drugs?
Is that his girlfriend?
- Get out of here.
- Who is it?
- Talk to me.
- Get him out of here.
- Go on!
- I got my passes.
- Shit.
- I have every right to be here.
Where'd he go?
Suspect has withdrawn into
the interior of the room.
We no Longer have visual contact.
That was my car.
Holy--
Having a Little car trouble?
That's a keen observation.
I can help you.
It's the Jag.
You want me to drive home in your car?
I want you to take my car.
I've had a lot of Luck Lately.
I don't need it.
You're giving me a new Jaguar
and you don't want anything?
I can prove it. Give me your card.
I'll be in touch.
What, you want me to kill your
wife or something?
No.
Tempting, but, no.
Call it generosity between
two strangers.
Generosity? It's a Jaguar.
You expect me to drive home
in a new Jaguar?
- That's right.
- You're a freak!
You are a freak.
You want me to get in this car? No way!
It'll probably blow up.
That's real funny, bits and pieces of me
raining down in the street!
You think I'm going near that thing,
you're nuts!
Besides, I got a car.
Sort of.
What? You Like it?
Cool blade, huh?
- You want to see it?
- Keep it in your pants.
Fag.
- He's gonna kill you.
- I've got pepper spray.
Apparently, none of you have ever
seen a new teacher before.
I'm Mr. Simonet.
Welcome to the seventh grade.
Middle school, that hellish, shaky
bridge you all must cross...
...before you become members of that
undyingly enviable high school elite.
You may think you can't cross
this bridge fast enough.
You'd rather close your eyes and not
think about it until it's all over.
Well, I'm here to tell you...
...that is not an option
in this class.
Lateness.
Tardiness.
To be late for your first class
on your first day of school.
What does that indicate?
I'm having a bad hair day?
Perhaps what it indicates is
a Lack of respect.
You see, I'm going to be here
every day for you.
And so I expect you to be here for me.
On time, no excuses.
Put that down.
Wait.
Now...
...this class is social studies.
That is you and the world. Yes.
There is a world out there and even if
you don't want to meet it...
...it's still going to hit you
right in the face.
Believe me.
Best start thinking about the world
now and what it means to you.
What does the world mean to you?
Come on! A Little class
participation.
Is it just this class you
want to get out of?
Your house, your street?
Any further any of you want to go
than that? Yes?
The mall. That's only two miles
away from me.
Let me ask you another question.
How often do you think about things
that happen outside of this town?
Do you watch the news? Yes? No?
All right, so we're not global thinkers
yet, but why aren't we?
Because we're 11.
Good point. What's your name?
Trevor.
Maybe Trevor's right. Why should
we think about the world?
After all, what does the world
expect of us?
Expect?
Of you.
What does the world expect of you?
Nothing.
My God, boys and girls, he's right.
Here you are. You can't drive.
You can't vote.
You can't go to the bathroom
without a pass. You're stuck...
...right here in the seventh grade.
But not forever...
...because one day you'll be free.
But what if on that day you're free...
...you haven't prepared,
you're not ready...
...and yet you Look around you
and you don't Like what the world is.
What if the world...
...is just a big disappointment?
We're screwed.
Unless....
Unless you take the things that you
don't Like about this world...
...and you flip them upside down right
on their ass.
Don't tell your parents I
used that word.
And you can start that...
...today.
This is your assignment.
Extra credit.
It goes on all year Long.
Wait a minute.
What's wrong with this?
What's the matter? Yes?
It's, Like, so....
There must be a word to finish
that sentence.
- Someone help her.
- Weird.
Weird. Crazy.
Hard.
- Bummer.
How about possible?
It's possible.
The realm of possibility...
...exists where? In each of you.
Here.
So you can do it.
You can surprise us. It's up to you.
Or you can just sit back
and let it atrophy.
Atrophy.
If there is a word you hear that you
don't understand, there's a dictionary.
Look it up.
And there are these dictionaries which
you will carry at all times...
...because in this class, we're going
to Learn to Love words...
...and their meanings.
Any questions?
Yeah.
So, you'll Like, flunk us if we
don't change the world?
No, I wouldn't do that.
But you might just squeak by
with a "C".
What'd you ever do to change
the world?
Well, Trevor, I get a good
night's sleep.
I eat a hearty breakfast.
I show up on time...
...and then I pass the buck to you.
Now, I want you all to write your names
in these books and--
What's your name?
Molly, all right. I want Molly to
Look up the word atrophy...
...and tell the class what it means.
No, we're not in Milwaukee.
Straight to hell. Straight to hell.
Four tequilas.
Who's having the fourth one?
- You are.
- Not for me, thank you.
- We bought it for you.
- Thank you so much. No thanks.
- Why not?
- I promised my kid.
I know, it's horrible.
You guys have fun.
Wait, wait, wait. Here.
Thank you.
What are you doing, Junior?
What are your doing, Jun?
What are you doing?
You got her now. You got her now.
You got him now. You got him now.
What time do you get off?
If only I weren't married.
He's married!
I'm single! I'm single!
- Hello?
- Hey.
How'd it go?
Are you there?
- Yeah.
How'd it go?
What?
How was your first day?
Okay.
Trev, you got to speak up.
I can't hear you.
Sorry I wasn't home. I had
a chance to pick up another shift.
You mad at me?
Trev, what are you doing?
Nothing.
You find the spaghetti?
I'm eating it.
Good.
Come on, tell me what happened.
I got to go.
Spoon?
Spoon.
Mom?
Mom!
My friend's coming in to
take a shower, okay?
Okay.
That's not really breakfast.
You don't eat breakfast.
Well, Let's have some.
I'll make some eggs.
I'll have some too.
You sure you won't throw up?
- What's that mean?
- What do you think?
Tell me what it means.
- You're sneaking it.
- I'm not sneaking anything.
Okay.
Wait, I'm sorry. You're right.
- I want to talk.
- You want to Lie to me.
I don't want to Lie, I want to talk.
- Do what you want.
- I want us to get along.
I'm sorry.
I can't find the toilet paper.
- Who are you?
- It's Jerry.
Get out! Get out of my house!
- Thanks a Lot.
- Get out!
- Do you need money for the bus?
- No, I got it.
You said he could take a shower.
- I never said that!
- You did.
I said to Let a strange man
into my bathroom?
He's my friend.
You can't have a friend Like that.
- It's for my assignment.
- What assignment?
You won't get it.
Mr. Simonet will get it.
Who's Mr. Simonet?
Hey, I'm talking--
He's my teacher.
Mr. Simonet?
Yes, I'm Eugene...
...Simonet.
- Hello.
- What is this assignment?
- Excuse me?
What did you say for my son to
Let a homeless man in my house?
I have two problems.
One, I've no idea what
you're talking about...
...and two, I don't know who you are.
Arlene McKinney. My boy is in your
social studies class? Trevor?
Trevor.
Yes, he's very attentive. He's very
exigent, which I Like.
- Exigent. Challenging, testing.
- I know what it means.
Why did my kid bring a bum home?
- I have no idea.
- Bullshit!
I don't know how he interpreted
the assignment.
How do you think he interpreted it?
I don't know.
If you want to know, why don't you
talk to your son?
I talk to him.
Really?
Then why did you come down here to ask
me what the assignment is?
It's not a state secret.
Yeah? And?
It's an assignment I give out at the
beginning of every year to inspire.
I don't expect them to change the world.
- You don't expect them to change--
- Excuse me.
It's to get them to think,
not walk on water.
An assignment they can't do?
What kind of teacher are you?
I didn't say that.
They make attempts.
Now and then they clean up graffiti--
This is my kid. You don't know him.
Tell him he can do something,
he'll believe you.
And when he can't, it'll wipe him out.
They ought to fire your ass
out of here right now.
They probably won't do that because I
filled a very excellent quota.
I'm just this side of parking in
the blue zone.
You think you can do whatever you want
because your face is messed up?
Why don't you put down in writing your
Little and Loud complaints...
...and I'll make sure they get put
in the suggestion box.
Jesus.
You are really something.
Thanks. I appreciate the euphemism.
I've always wanted to be something.
Can I help you with something, miss?
No.
Mr. Thorsen. Hold up, man!
I've been waiting all day for you.
- Why won't you return my calls?
- We're not friends.
I got the pink slip for the car.
Quite a stocking stuffer.
- You can't accept it?
- No, that would make me a moron.
I just want to know about
these instructions.
Do what they say. Pay it forward.
- Why?
- Because you've accepted the car.
- You're obligated.
- What if I don't feel obligated?
What if I take my new car, get some
hookers and drive to Mexico?
I'll never know.
What is this? Come on, for real.
An attack of total altruism
from a Litigator.
I've got a meeting.
I've got a story. Okay?
A partner at Channing and Moss
is giving away cars?
Tell me a reason or I'll make one up.
Mine will be more interesting.
You've gone dotty, you're wearing
crystals, keeping too many cats at home?
Look. Listen, please!
My ex-wife has everything. Okay?
Plus, she's in a Lesbian relationship
just to piss me off.
Help me out, please.
My daughter has asthma.
One night it was very bad,
the worst I'd ever seen it.
It was the middle of the night,
emergency room.
We were waiting forever.
Couldn't get anyone to pay attention.
Her inhaler doesn't seem
to be working.
Mr. Parker, what happened?
My sister, she stabbed me.
- We were here first.
- Stab wounds first.
- She can't breathe. She's scared.
- I will Let you know.
Somebody has to see her.
It's never been this bad.
Do something.
Would you just sit down?
I'm sorry. We've been here 4 hours.
You need to get a doctor.
No. Wait.
That's bullshit.
Help her right now.
- Excuse me?
- Why you giving me shit?
Ain't you got some oxygen?
Let me get the supervisor.
You don't need a supervisor.
You the supervisor today.
You are the supervisor today.
You feel me on that?
Take your ass down the hall, put the
girl on the tray and supervise her...
...and get her some goddamn air.
I got your back, sis. Bitch, you're
still here. Shit!
Let go of my arm, man.
This ain't fair, man!
Come on! Come on, man. Damn!
I thanked him...
...and there were specific orifices in
which I was told to shove my thanks.
He told me, "Just pay it forward."
Three big favors for three other
people. That's it.
So it's Like a pass-it-on thing, then.
You and this Lowlife are in this chain
of do-gooders...
...a kind of Mother Teresa conga Line?
That's a Little New-Agey for you.
Sort of Tibetan? Are you in a cult?
Mention my name, you'll be selling your
kidneys to pay for your Lawsuit.
Cult.
The guy! What was the guy's name?
Sorry, I'm Late for my mass wedding.
I know somebody's in here.
I know you're there.
Come out or I will find you
and shoot you.
Please don't shoot.
Please.
You stay right there.
If I see you move one--
Please don't pick it up!
Please don't! I'm not moving.
Please.
What are you doing to my truck?
Let me show you. I'm just....
I'm just going to open the door, okay?
See?
Might be easier for you to sell now.
Now that it works.
I didn't ask for your help.
You been Living in my garage?
Not after tonight.
Can I come around and....
I got a handyman job at the Royal Motel.
They're giving me a room.
You stay right there!
Please, I don't Like guns.
What is going on with you and my son?
He wanted to help somebody.
Wanted to get somebody back on their
feet, so he gave me a Little money.
- He gave you money?
- Yes, ma'am.
That's his savings.
Well, it's clothes and shoes
and I got the job off it.
You think you can keep it?
Looks to me Like you've got yourself
a Little problem.
I can Lick it.
How's that supposed to happen
all of a sudden?
You ever been on the street?
My mom took us pretty close.
Well, you can't know, not until
you're Looking at a dumpster.
But when you climb in the first time,
and pull the newspapers over you...
...that's when you know you've
messed your Life up.
Somebody comes along Like your son
and gives me a Leg up...
...I'll take it.
Even from a kid, I'll take it.
I can't mess up again or I'll be dead.
I appreciate that you're trying to pay
back Trevor--
I'm not allowed to pay back Trevor.
- Then what is it you're doing?
- I'm paying it forward.
I know you want me to go.
I'll go.
What's paying it forward?
That's me.
And that's three people.
And I'm going to help them, but it has
to be something really big...
...something they can't do
by themselves.
So I do it for them...
...then they do it for
three other people.
That's nine.
And I do three more....
That's 27, so--
I'm not really good at math but it
gets big really fast. You know?
All right, all right, all right.
A Little articulation, please.
- Yes?
- I think it's a good idea.
- Shawn?
- It's stupid.
- Adam?
- It's the honor system.
- People blow off the honor system.
- So what?
Just because you do.
Trevor, the class thinks that you've
come up with an overly Utopian idea.
Look that word up in a minute.
Like a perfect world?
So?
So what put this idea in your head?
Because....
Everything sucks.
He talked to you about this?
We've had our discussions.
But you don't have to worry...
...because I'll tell him we
can't talk no more.
No, don't do that.
Would you Like a cup of coffee?
Yes, ma'am.
Okay.
I called the president
to talk about pollution.
But my mom said now they'll
put us on some List...
...so she hung up.
For this assignment, I put up recycling
fliers at two supermarkets.
I'm going to put up a website
in Chinese.
It'll tell all the kids in China to jump
up and down at the same time.
The goal being to knock
the Earth off its axis.
- Yeah.
- Thank you. Sit down.
Well, your ideas are as surprising
as they are variegated.
Add that to your List of words
to Look up.
But I want to focus for a moment on one
project we heard today.
I've been teaching for many years and
it's the first new idea that also...
...requires an extreme act of faith in
the goodness of people.
Trevor has made an attempt to
interact with the world...
...and that was the assignment.
And if I were an effusive person given
to easy praise...
...I would call that...
...admirable.
The words from today:
Utopian, enigma, quantum.
Add variegated.
I want you to go home--
- Hey, Mr. Simonet.
- Hello.
Were you just being nice?
About what?
About my idea.
Do you think it's good or were you
just being teachery?
Teachery?
Bullshitting.
Do I strike you as someone
falsely nice?
No.
You're not even really all that nice.
Well, it was a slip-up
and it will not happen again.
What?
What happened to your face?
Did you draw the short straw today,
Trevor?
It's not a very pertinent subject to
social studies, is it?
Go and tell them that's
what I said.
Tell who?
I'll see you tomorrow.
- You know where Jerry is?
- Over there in 15.
It's more product.
Who is it?
It's Trevor.
I'm Looking for Jerry.
Jerry's not here.
When will he be back?
He's not coming back.
Now get out of here.
Jerry?
Get out of here!
Please come out, Jerry.
I remember in 1976 there were those
programs in the school system...
- ...and now, all that's gone.
- I gotta go.
You ran out of class this morning.
I wanted to talk to you.
- Hello.
Come in.
Trevor's not feeling good.
I'm sorry.
What's the matter?
Just a tummy ache.
Do you want to come in?
Sure. Thank you.
- Sit down.
- Thank you.
- It's a very beautiful home.
Have you lived in Vegas your
whole Life?
Yeah.
I told him if you wanted to talk to me
I would come to the school.
Mrs. McKinney, I didn't ask to see you.
Well, Trevor said you did.
Yeah and he gave me a note from you...
...which you didn't write.
He gave you a note from me?
Oh, God, that's horrible.
He's been so--
- No, I didn't mean you.
- No explanation required.
- Don't elaborate.
- It's not personal.
- I'm used to this.
- Would you stop?
Can we just rewind here a Little bit?
I obviously didn't realize
how much Trevor Likes you.
That's nothing that we can't discuss
on parent-teacher night.
Then why did you come?
Why didn't you just tell me to
come to the school?
Because you came to the school...
...to talk to me about your son...
...and I behaved Like a--
An asshole?
Sorry.
Is that too trailer-trash a word?
How's "rat bastard" sit with you?
It's pretty good.
- "Dickhead"?
- Oh, I Like that.
Look, I'm--
I made all this food.
It's just sitting here.
I really don't know who else to
talk to about him.
- This is good.
- Thanks.
I don't understand.
This is summer school?
Why do you think Trevor stopped
talking to you?
I don't know.
He seems mad.
Seventh grade is difficult,
but he seems happy at school.
Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it's fine.
How much do you see him?
- As much as I can.
- How much is that?
I'm not doing a bunch of skanky guys
instead of spending time with my son.
I got two jobs.
Right. I meant that.
Couldn't have just been a question.
Mrs. McKinney, do you think there
might be something...
...outside of school that might be
bothering him?
I don't know.
I'm going to have to consult
my spirit guides here.
You tell me Trevor's withholding
from you...
...but won't tell me anything specific,
and you want me to divine why.
Divine why?
You always talk Like that?
Yes.
You go to some big fancy school?
Think you could stop rubbing
my nose in it?
Is there a father?
He doesn't Live here anymore.
I don't know where he is.
I know what that's Like.
Arlene, I've called you five times.
- Bonnie.
- No, Listen.
You don't call your sponsor once in
a while, you don't have a sponsor.
This is Eugene Simonet.
You're not supposed to date for
a year.
- It isn't a date.
- No, I'm Trevor's teacher.
We're having a conference.
We're done.
Were done.
How could you do that to me?
Write a Letter to him, sign my name?
- Why'd you have to mess everything up?
- I didn't mess this up.
What were you doing?
Standing at the door Listening?
- What happened to your stomachache?
- Why? You always Lie.
This wasn't my fault.
This was embarrassing.
I did something good
and you don't know it.
Honey, Listen.
You can't just put two people together
and make them Like each other.
You only Like people you
can get drunk with.
You're waiting for him to come back.
- No, I'm not.
- Yes, you are!
No, I'm not!
- Your father's not getting his foot--
- That's what you always say.
- I mean it now.
- You always mean it.
What do you want me to say?
I say it, I mean it.
When he's around you don't care
what happens to me.
You don't even know I'm in the house.
- That's not true.
- It's true.
I Love you.
I'm doing the best I can.
Don't Love me.
I hate the way you Look.
Trevor, you need to stop.
I hate that you're my mother.
Trev, I'm going to come in, okay?
You said that an hour ago.
Do you understand my kid is missing?
If I had a car I'd be out
Looking for him!
What time do you think he took off?
I don't know.
I'm sorry to do this to you.
Bonnie wasn't home.
The cops wouldn't come.
And my friends are all drunks.
- It's okay.
- And so am I.
I'm a drunk too.
I believe some people refer to
that as "in recovery."
Where are you going?
Got enough?
Need a ticket somewhere? Come on,
I'll get you a ticket.
Come with me. I'll get you a ticket.
I'll get you a ticket,
you son of a bitch!
Honey, are you okay?
For the rest of my Life, I can
never be as sorry...
...as I am for what I did to you.
I didn't drink.
I wanted to, but I didn't.
You got no reason to trust me...
...and I know you don't want to hear
any more promises...
...so I'm just gonna tell you
the truth.
I have a problem.
I have a really bad problem.
I've got to stop.
And if you can be with me on this...
...if you can think it's possible
that I can do it...
...then I think maybe I can.
If you just...
...try a Little bit and help--
You're still here?
I hope it's okay.
- He's asleep.
- Good, okay.
How did you know where he was?
Well, kids, they either hitchhike
or they take a bus.
- Listen--
- You're welcome.
No, you don't have to.
- I understand--
- Wait. Goddamn, I want to thank you.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
- Wasn't quite worth it, was it?
- No.
I was wondering, do you want to come
back here sometime?
Have dinner with me?
I'm not entirely sure
that would be appropriate.
Okay. I understand.
- Good night.
Why'd you do that man
the favor, Sidney?
No, it's Like three favors, player.
You got to do three.
I'll do the other two here
for my folks.
A Lot of brothers need favors in here.
But who told you to do it?
It's Like this idea I got.
You gonna put this on TV?
How did you come up with
an idea Like that?
Man, it's Like....
It's Like the world is a shithole.
Excuse my French and shit.
And it's Like...
...I just thought, Like, boom!
Like the whole shit could be,
Like, better.
It didn't start with anyone else?
No, nigger.
That shit came from here.
The shit came from my head.
I can't Lie.
I been through some heavy-ass shit.
But not no more,
because it changed me.
And I'm changing this place, man.
I mean, people are Listening to me.
People are staying clean.
I mean, it's Like some cosmic
Aristotle shit. You feel me?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, no doubt.
- I feel you.
- No doubt, dog, no doubt.
The thing is, Sidney...
...somebody else is saying
that pay it forward was their idea.
Who?
I think you know who.
That bitch?
She a Lying-ass bitch.
She's a Lying bitch.
She's got your head.
She makes a pretty good case,
though, Sid.
That old crusty bag Lady?
This is all from me.
All from my heart, dog.
Sidney, it doesn't matter if you got
it from the Lady or not.
You're the one paying it forward.
In prison, no Less.
The parole board will eat that up.
- Oh, the parole board.
- The parole board.
Oh, snap, yo. You good, man.
It's Like a carrot for
the mouse and shit.
No doubt. It's too bad my parole don't
come up for another year, B.
What if I can make it so your parole
comes up next month?
Hello.
Oh, hello.
Did you know I worked here?
No, I didn't. Really.
Just dropped in for
a Little game of craps?
No, I Like that coffee shop.
They have good food.
Yeah, they got good pancakes.
Yeah.
Fluffy.
- Want me to bring you back something?
- Oh, no, thanks.
- I get off in an hour.
- Really?
Yeah, really.
Well, if you were going to eat
anyway then....
If you wanted, maybe....
If you were hungry, we could....
We could, if you were,
if you want to...
...eat something...
...sometime.
Give me a seven iron, please.
Yes, sir.
May I help you?
I am not stalking the governor, Jordy.
Shit. Chandler.
You scared me. You Look Like crap.
What are you doing here?
- I want to talk to him, Jordan.
- Your questions piss him off.
- Is that why I got the bounce?
- He won't talk to you.
- Tell him I'm a candygram.
- Stop it.
I've been sitting on a story for
2 years about a party he had.
The clean-up crew found syringes,
size 12 high heels, animal droppings.
That can't be right, can it?
You really had this, you'd have used it.
Bullshit. His friends in high places
had me kill it...
...but since I got fired,
I'm not feeling that Loyal.
- What do you want?
- Four million dollars.
I'm kidding, man. Relax.
A phone call.
I just need a phone call.
I need a massage for a friend's
parole date. That's it.
- They kept me "0 minutes over.
- Did you call him?
I couldn't remember the name of the
restaurant. I remember the hotel--
If you're Late he thinks
it means you don't respect him.
What?
If you're Late, he'll think it means
you don't respect him.
Wear this.
- I want to wear the green dress.
- You Look Like a vampire in that.
I got to take a shower.
- What?
- I smell horrible.
No, you don't! You smell good.
You smell Like roses or something.
Let me just wash under my arms.
Are you sure?
Yeah, I'm sure.
Don't interrupt him in
the middle of a sentence.
Am I supposed to raise my hand?
- Get me my shoes. Those sandals.
- No, these.
I'm not wearing those.
They're too sexy.
You're Late. You owe him.
- I owe him? Who are you?
- Go.
No stupid jokes! He's not
that kind of person.
Thank you very much. Where's the phone?
I got to call for a cab.
If I take a bus, I'll be
another hour Late.
- Stop yapping.
- I've got to call for a cab.
Oh, my God!
Oh, my God. You're just about....
You're the greatest son in the world!
Okay, you have to go.
Here, here.
Go, go.
- Lock both doors!
- I will.
- I Love you!
- Love you too, Mom.
I respect you!
They kept me Late at work...
...and then I got on the bus to go
home and change, which was stupid.
I'm sorry, but I was all the way--
You're right on time.
I'm sorry.
I was Living in Vegas. One night I
was walking down the street.
Minding my own. Wasn't doing
nothing to nobody.
I was just on my way to church.
Out of nowhere these five Bloods just
peeled out of a truck.
And one of them, man,
was real black.
Man, I start swinging one by one
Like, "Nigger, take that!"
Like Ali on them bitches.
I was like....
"What's up, nigger, what's up?"
All five of them got up
and started chasing me, man.
"We going to kill you, Crip."
I was like,
"You can't catch me, Blood."
Then, man, all of a sudden,
out of nowhere...
...that's when I ran into
this old lady.
That's who you want to know about.
Shit!
Hey, you in trouble?
- What?
- Get in.
Get in?
Come on, get in.
Shit!
What are we doing?
Whatever we want.
Damn!
You think I'm going for your dried-up
crusty ass? Whatever.
Shoot. I smell better than you do.
Yeah, all right.
All right, so what?
What you want?
Don't matter...
...because you ain't going to do it.
You damn right about that. Shit.
Hey, not in my car.
Shit, not in my car.
Oh, my bad. My bad.
This is your pad? You don't want me
to jack up your pretty curtains.
Son of a bitch.
I paid it forward for a hophead
son of a bitch.
You paid it what? I didn't hear that.
I ain't going to tell you because your
ass ain't good enough to touch it.
Oh, my ass ain't good enough, huh?
Now you gonna tell me.
You gonna tell me.
An old bat Living in her car in Las
Vegas tells you about pay it forward?
She ain't want to, but I wouldn't
stop until she Let it out.
What I really want to know is why?
Why did you pay it forward?
Because don't nobody tell me what
I can and can't touch.
You're not supposed to date
for a year.
They're not dates.
Seven dinners. What are they?
- It's a couple of adults sitting down.
- Does he pay?
- He pays for everything.
- Did anybody ask you?
- He doesn't know many people.
- He Likes her.
- So?
- He fixed your TV remote.
- That's an engagement ring.
- And he doesn't drink.
Don't you got to pee? Look.
- I need a smoke.
- Yeah. Over there.
- So has he kissed you?
- No, no, no, no.
Does he want to?
Sometimes I think he does.
He can't really want to
or he would've.
Do you want him to?
I don't know.
It's just taking forever.
You ever gotten to know somebody
before you went to bed with him?
- Is that bad?
- It's pathetic.
Well, good night.
Do you want to come in?
And stay?
Come in.
Trevor's inside the house.
Well, he sleeps Like the dead.
I don't want to make it any
harder for you.
You're supposed to wait a year.
Isn't that what Bonnie said?
Okay.
I can't.
I'm sorry.
No. I don't mean I can't.
It's just....
What?
This is complicated.
I get it. It's okay to say you
don't Like me that way.
Is that what you think it is?
It's okay.
How could you ever think that?
What?
What is it?
- And you're doing this because?
- I need more Links.
You're spending $300 to find
an old Lady...
...so you can sell a story for $300.
It's a news magazine feature. It's
not something you wipe your ass with.
You have a Lovely way of
expressing yourself.
Do me a favor.
Don't change the Locks on me, okay?
Chris? What are you hoping this'll be?
You know, something that clears a check.
Are you sure that's all?
I drank the Last of the coffee.
Please put it on the List.
Bye.
Who's there?
- Do you Look down on me?
- What?
- No.
I don't talk Like you. I haven't
read the stuff you read.
That's not pertinent,
and you know it.
Don't talk to me Like that!
I'm sorry, but that's the way I talk.
Words are all I have.
Why?
Why, because you think you Look
Like shit?
I don't care about your burns,
if that's what they are.
- Is that what they are?
- Yes.
Okay, well, whatever happened to you,
you Look good to me.
Well, you Look good to me too.
Okay, so?
So I've never been here before.
Okay, so you're scared.
I'm scared too.
Listen, bad things have happened
to me, okay?
I can't take my shirt off with a guy
without five beers...
...but I want that with you.
More than I'm scared, I want that.
You don't see me.
My Life....
My Life is familiar. My Life is....
It's manageable.
It's manageable. Every day.
I have a thing I do every day.
It's all I've ever known.
And it's a routine and as Long
as I have that...
...as Long as I have that, I'm okay.
If I don't have it, I'm Lost.
So is that all you want?
Your goddamn manageable day?
- It's what I have.
- It isn't.
- Is it what you want?
- Yes!
I don't believe you.
Okay. That's the best I got.
- It's not about you.
- Yes, it is!
Something's been offered to you here
and you don't want it.
Maybe you're scared to get rejected.
Well I can't reject you.
You're too quick for me.
You didn't call me a fag, did you?
Look what I found.
Give me that! That's my asthma spray!
- Shut up!
- Stop it!
- Stay still!
- Stop! Help me!
- Hold still!
- Stop!
Hey, McKinney.
Come here.
Let's hang out.
Help me, please.
Screw it. Come on.
Let me go! Let me go!
You cut my class.
It's been four days.
What's been four days?
Why haven't you called my mother?
It's been four days.
I don't know.
Neither does she.
Hey, what's the matter?
Pay it forward didn't work.
I couldn't even do it.
I was gonna help Adam.
Help Adam do what?
Not get beat up.
But I crapped out and I Let him.
I Let him get beat.
No. you didn't.
You didn't Let him get beat.
It happened.
Sometimes there's nothing we can do.
- It's not fair.
- I know--
No. You don't know.
You should call my mother.
You could do something if you wanted.
- Why are you chicken?
- I'm not chicken.
Something's gonna happen,
then it'll be too Late.
What's gonna happen?
What do you mean?
He'll come back.
Who will come back?
Hey, who will come--?
Your dad.
Your dad will come back?
And...
...what will happen when he
comes back, Trevor?
Will he hurt you?
Will he hurt her?
Not if someone's there...
...instead of him.
Trevor, it's...
...complicated for me now.
Is the world just shit?
No, it isn't.
You did good work.
Look at me.
I'm proud of you, Trevor.
I'm proud of you.
And anyway, for what it's worth...
...I'm grading you on the effort,
not the result.
I don't care about the grade.
I just wanted to see if the world
would really change.
Come in.
Trevor!
- It worked!
- Oh, God.
- Does he always get up early?
- What?
He just saw me.
- It's okay.
- I'm his teacher.
Now you have to pay it forward too.
Eugene!
You should still call me Mr. Simonet.
You had a sleepover.
- Go back to bed.
- Why?
It's too early and I got to
get to school.
- No, it's a Sunday.
- It's a Sunday?
It's a Sunday?
Stay. Mom will make breakfast.
I have a schedule that you
don't know about every Sunday.
Will you take care of him?
I'll call you Later.
Don't be a stranger!
You Like him?
Lady, come on.
Go away.
I'm not going to hurt you, Lady.
Here, take it.
It's a nice thought
but it's not what I want.
What are you doing?
I'm not going to hurt you!
Oh, my God. Listen to me.
Nothing's this important.
Come down here.
What are you doing?
What do you care anyway?
Because I owe somebody a favor.
Not me.
Why not you?
You know, a minute ago...
...all I could think about
was getting my next fix.
And then I saw you
and I changed my thinking.
Oh, please. Go away.
Trust me. I'm not worth it.
Why is that?
- For God's sake.
- Come on, tell me.
Why are you not worth it?
Trust me. You wouldn't understand.
Are you kidding me?
You think I Live at the Ritz?
Have a cup of coffee with me.
What?
Do me a favor.
Save my Life.
Get him, get him! Off the ropes!
He missed him!
He's dead!
Come on, bleed, dude.
Give him a DDT.
- What?
- It's gonna be a DDT.
Drop him on his ass!
I'm worried about you.
That's the DDT.
- Hear me?
- He's dead!
- He's paralyzed, get out of the ring.
- You can't get out of the ring.
He can. He has to get a chair.
A chair?
Slow motion.
Trevor, when did you become
so violent?
Take me to a match. You get
splattered in the front row.
I don't want to be splattered.
It'll be your
birthday present to me.
You know what you're getting?
A new encyclopedia.
Leather bound.
Thucydides History of
the Peloponnesian War.
No, I'm getting you 51
crackling volumes.
There'll be pop quizzes every day on
the development of cotton farms.
Hi, Arlene.
You can't stay here, Ricky.
I know.
Look, I know what we had was
a nightmare, Arlene.
- But I did it.
- You did what?
I knew I couldn't come back
unless I was sober.
It's the truth.
Five months, two weeks and four days
are the truth.
- Where you been?
- What does it matter?
I knew I had to change.
- Are you sober?
- Yeah, I got sober staying right here.
Well, you're stronger than me.
Can you just stop for a minute?
Please?
Can we just sit down and talk?
God.
I'm sorry.
What are you doing here?
- I want you to understand.
- No explanation required.
Please don't talk to me Like that.
We had 13 years in, Eugene. He's sober
now. We've never been sober together.
I wish you Luck.
I feel Like I've got to
give him a chance.
A chance? A chance for what?
To change.
To try to make up for Lost time.
To take Trevor to ball games?
Do "daddy" things with him?
Yeah, he promised to try.
- What should I do?
- Be smart.
He's his father.
He impregnated you, Arlene.
In what other way has he
been a father?
Unless knocking somebody around
is a new family value.
What do you mean?
He never touched Trevor.
Oh, that's right, only you.
He only took it out on you.
That's so much better.
What did Trevor tell you?
Enough.
Secrets Like that shouldn't be kept.
What good does it do Trevor?
Ricky never meant to hit me.
We were drunk!
Christ!
What is it with women Like you?
Is that something you tell yourself?
"It's okay he beat me."
"Trevor's okay."
Trevor Locked himself in a bathroom
and he can't breathe...
...and he's praying that it will stop!
- Trevor never went through that!
- You know what Trevor went through?
How do you know?
How do you know the next time after
you, he doesn't come for Trevor?
I know what I'm talking about, Arlene.
My father got on his knees
and begged my mother...
...and my mother, she always
took him back.
I never understood it.
She'd cover the bruises and the cuts
and she'd take him back...
...because he begged and he cried.
Ask me what happened after
he came back.
You wanted to know what happened to me!
Now ask me!
- I don't Like this.
- "Did he hurt you?" Ask!
Did he hurt you?
Not for Long.
By 13 I was gone. I ran away.
But I missed her, so I had to go back
and see her.
So one night I did.
Ask what happened. "What happened that
night you came back, Eugene?"
What happened?
He was there, drunk as usual.
Only this time, I wasn't the same.
I was 16 years old and I was no Longer
afraid of him.
And when I Looked him in the eye...
...and told him if he ever touched her
again, I would kill him, he knew.
He knew that he would never exist
for me again.
And I'm standing in front of the house.
I'm screaming for her to come out.
I'm telling her she doesn't have
to take it anymore.
She doesn't.
She can come with me now.
I don't see it coming.
He hits my head with a two-by-four
and I'm bleeding from my ear.
He's dragging me behind the house into
the garage. Then he's gone.
A minute, five minutes, I don't know.
Then he's back and wetting me down.
And I don't understand.
I don't understand why water
should smell so bad.
I don't understand. And then I see it.
I see...
...this...
...this gas can.
This red gas can from his truck.
And he Looks at me one Last time...
...and he Lights a match.
And the Last thing I remember...
...and I'll never forget it...
...were his eyes.
His eyes, because they were
filled with this...
...immense...
...satisfaction.
I'm so sorry.
Don't tell me how sorry you
are for me!
Tell me how you'll stop it
happening to Trevor.
Ricky would never do that.
Oh, Jesus, Arlene. He doesn't have to.
All he has to do is not Love him.
What's going on?
I'll tell you what's going on.
- What are you doing?
- What's it Look Like?
You can't do this.
What are you putting in my room?
We had an agreement.
My son won't talk to me.
He won't Look at me!
You turn him against me?
I told you I wasn't gonna make him
talk to you.
You could get a job.
- What am I supposed to use for a car?
- Take the bus.
That'll be the day.
- You can't stay in this room.
- This is our room.
This is our house, our bed.
- You've been drinking.
- Kiss me.
Stop it! Stop it!
I want you out of this house.
- What's your problem?
- I want you out.
Turn that down!
I'll come and pound your ass!
- Don't talk to him Like that!
- Don't tell me how to talk!
Don't tell me how to talk to anybody.
I've had enough.
- Are you getting mad?
- What are you gonna do about it?
I Liked you better when you had
a few drinks in you.
You want me out of the house, I'm out!
Sorry.
I think I made a mistake.
Everybody makes mistakes.
All right, bring them up.
Thank you. Carefully.
Thank you.
Careful. Did you get rid
of your hiccups?
Told you holding your breath
would work.
Thank you. Careful. Thank you.
Very nice.
Give me that one. Thank you.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Trevor, what is it?
Are you still gonna pay it forward?
You could say you don't have to...
...because it didn't work out.
But I thought you still might.
Trevor, I would Like more than
anything to do that for you.
- When I find something worthy--
- I know somebody who needs something.
- You have to Let me find this--
- You know who it is.
Look...
...you don't understand everything.
All right?
So you do not know what you're asking.
Give her another chance.
I will pay it forward.
I promise you that.
But I cannot do that.
But that's why this is the one.
Because it's supposed to be
something hard.
If you help my mom, even if you're
still mad, in a way nobody could--
- Did she ask you to talk to me?
- No, she thinks you won't forgive her.
But I still think you could.
If you wanted to do something huge...
...for someone...
...for my project.
For me.
She made her choice.
She said she made a mistake.
Well, that's the beauty of hindsight.
You don't care.
Yes, I do.
I will always care about you, always.
Yeah.
You're my teacher.
They pay you to.
- You got it?
- Yeah.
I ain't saying a thing till I
get one more.
You know, I thought you might
feel that way.
No, no. Later.
I got my places.
Places where nobody cares where
you park overnight.
Places where I live.
Anybody who knows me...
...knows where to find me.
Hi, Mom.
- What are you doing here?
- I wanted to see you.
- After three years, why now?
- I can't watch you do this.
I drive by your house.
I know.
- He's big.
- Yeah.
What are you doing here?
Are you gonna try to put me
somewhere?
No.
Then what do you want?
I want to try to do something.
All the things...
...when I was a kid.
The booze...
...and the men.
What happened to me when you
weren't Looking.
I know we're all weak.
- No, not you.
- No, I've been weak.
Here's the thing.
I forgive you.
- I don't Like your hair.
- I know. I'm not putting it back.
So I'd Like to see you sometimes.
Is that okay?
Yes.
You can't Live with me.
Who would want to?
Can I see him?
Not drunk.
You've got to be sober if just
for two hours.
Yeah, I can do that.
Okay.
Then I'll come and find you.
Okay?
Yeah.
Okay.
Why'd you do this, Arley?
She told me why.
She told me I had to do
something big...
...for three other people.
Happy birthday dear Trevor
Happy birthday to you
And many more
What'd you wish for?
He can't tell you or it
won't come true.
Can I have some napkins?
Here you go.
I'll get it.
Mom?
I'm Chris Chandler. I'm a reporter.
Could I have a moment of your time?
Why? I don't have anything to
say about anything.
Please. I've already spoken to your
mother, which naturally led me to you.
- My mother?
- She told me about pay it forward.
How you helped her.
I'm doing a story.
You can't. That's private.
It upset my son. It was a social
studies thing and it didn't work.
Social studies?
Leave it alone. He just wants
to get on with seventh grade.
It's his birthday and it's a bad time.
- I'm sorry--
- No, I'm sorry.
I've been tracking this story
from Los Angeles.
Pay it Forward, the movement,
reached L.A.
- Come on. The movement?
- Yeah.
Your son had something to do
with this?
I really appreciate this,
Mrs. McKinney.
It's up to him.
- Ready, slugger?
- I guess.
Here you go. Up here, please.
Just Like you're getting a haircut.
- You been interviewed before?
- No.
This is for you.
Hi. How are you?
- What's your name?
- Chris Chandler. Nice to meet you.
Less painful than the dentist.
Just be yourself, okay?
- Ready to go?
- I guess.
Come on, you got to have
some gusto here.
All right, Let's go.
All right, great.
Just be yourself. Relax.
It's gonna be a Lot of fun.
Okay, we're on?
Hi, I'm Chris Chandler and I'm joined
today by an unusual seventh grader...
...Trevor McKinney.
Trevor, you must be pretty proud of
yourself.
No.
So you're not proud at all?
I don't know. I guess.
Come on, you start a movement Like Pay
it Forward. You're not proud?
I guess. I mean, I got an "A"
in social studies.
But that was just for the effort.
Stuff I did, it didn't work out.
- You're here.
- Yeah, but--
I don't know. I tried real hard...
...but nothing really happened.
My mom's stuff worked.
She talked to my grandma.
Kind of made up with her.
It was really hard for her.
It was great for me, because my
grandma came to my birthday party.
And I had really missed her.
And that's why Pay it Forward went to
all those places...
...because of my mom.
Because she was so brave.
My stuff, I don't know. I think some
people are too scared or something...
...to think things can be different.
The world's not exactly...
...shit.
I guess it's hard for some people who
are used to things the way they are...
...even if they're bad...
...to change.
And they kind of give up.
When they do, everybody--
They kind of Lose.
Hi, Arlene.
I don't want to be one of those people
he's talking about.
And I've become one.
I don't want to spend another
second of wasted air.
Please don't Let me stay trapped
in here forever.
I won't.
I don't want to spend another second
without you.
See you around.
All right, see you Later, guys.
Let me go!
- Stop it!
- Who'd you tell?
- Who'd you tell, tattletale?
- I didn't tell anybody.
I didn't say anything.
Help!
Stop it! Trevor!
Come here.
Let me go!
Cut it out! No!
Get out of my face!
Punch him! Come on!
No!
Leave him alone!
Someone get an ambulance!
I guess it's hard for
some people who...
...are used to things
the way they are.
...even if they're bad...
...to change.
I guess they kind of give up...
...and when they do...
...everybody kind of loses.
These moments make you sorry
to report anything.
This remarkable young man died
at 7: 35 this evening.
There are now confirmed incidents of
Pay it Forward in L.A., San Francisco.
In Phoenix, we're checking...
...if the 16 foster children who
received computers...
...is connected to this movement.
It's hard.
You can't plan it.
You have to watch people more.
Sort of keep an eye on them
to protect them...
...because they can't always
see what they need.
It's like your big chance to fix
something that's not like your bike.
You can fix a person.
Is that what you want for your
birthday, everybody to pay it forward?
I can't ask for that.
- Sure you can. Why not?
- Wouldn't work.
Why?
I already blew out my candles.